---
name: Vanessa Garcia
semester: Fall 23
course: cis106
---

# Final Project Deliverable 2

* What are the server hardware
specifications (virtual machine settings)? Take a screenshot - don’t type it!
  * Screenshot is saved on Blackboard submission page
<br>

* What is Ubuntu server log in screen? Take screenshot - do not type it!
    * Screenshot is saved on Blackboard submission page
<br>

* What is the IP address of your Ubuntu Server Virtual Machine?
  * Ipv4 address for enp0s3: 192.168.12.242
<br>

* How do you enable the Ubuntu Firewall?
  *  use command sudo ufw enable
<br>

* How do you check if the Ubuntu Firewall is running?
  * use command sudo ufw status
<br>

* How do you disable the Ubuntu Firewall?
  * use command sudo ufw disable
<br>

* How do you add Apache to the Firewall?
  * an update must be done to the system
  * enable the firewall:  sudo ufw enable
 <br>

* What is the command you used to install Apache?
  * install apache: sudo apt install apache2 -y
<br>

* What is the command you use to check if Apache is running?
  * systemctl status apache2 --no-pager
<br>

* What is the command you use to stop Apache?
  * sudo systemctl stop apache2
<br>

* What is the command you use to restart Apache?
  * sudo systemctl restart apache2 
<br>

* What is the command used to test Apache configuration?
  * sudo ufw allow 'Apache'
<br>
* What is the command used to check the installed version of Apache?
  *   sudo apache2 -v
<br> 

* What are the most common commands to troubleshoot Apache errors? Provide a brief description of each command.
  * <u>systemctl</u> = used to control and interact with linux services via the systemd service manager
  * <u>journalctl</u> = used to query and view the logs that are generated by systemd.
  * <u>apachectl</u> = when troubleshooting, this command is used to check Apache’s configuration.
<br>

* Which are Apache Log Files, and what are they used for? Provide examples and screenshots.
  *  any error tht is received in a browser or other HTTP client will have a corresponding entry in Apache’s logs. Apache will also output errors related to configuration, built-in modules, and other debugging information to its log files
  *  /var/log/httpd/error_log
     *  sudo tail -n 2 /var/log/apache2/error.log
  *  /var/log/apache2/error.log
  * /var/log/apache2/access.log   
  